cmd-ref: plots: flexible plots docs (#3691)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/user-guide/project-structure/pipelines-files.md

The commands in `dvc metrics` and `dvc plots` help you display and compare
metrics and plots.

> ## Plots definitions

Reviewer: Thanks for adding this section @pared. "Pipelines files" is no longer a good descriptor for this page if we include it, but I'm not sure there is a better place for it now, and I would say let's not let it block this PR for now.

The list of plots contains one or more user-defined
[plots](/doc/command-reference/plots#plots-definitions). Here's an example that
tells DVC that `auc.json` is viable for visualization:

```yaml
stages:
  build:
    cmd: python train.py
    deps:
      - features.csv
    outs:
      - model.pt
      - auc.json
    metrics:
      - accuracy.txt:
          cache: false

> plots:

Reviewer 2: are those still supported per stage?

Author: You mean `plots outputs`? Yes, they are supported

Reviewer 3: OK but maybe then the `outs` row (**Stage entries** table) should mention these can become viable for visualization via [top-level plot definitions](https://dvc-org-7086-flexible-p-d0hfxv.herokuapp.com/doc/user-guide/project-structure/pipelines-files#top-level-plot-definitions).

  auc.json:
    x: fpr
    y: tpr
```

> Note that in this example we don't have to specify `auc.json` as a plot output.

Reviewer: It might help to explain why this is useful and why there are two different ways to define plots. Maybe provide an example that uses multiple files or otherwise illustrates its use?

Plots definitions accept any file from repository. For more examples how to
create plots definitions refer to the

> [examples](/doc/command-reference/plots#example-simple-plot-definition).

Reviewer: We might need more explanation of the syntax either here or in the cmd ref. For example (I think these are correct?):

* The top-level key can be either the path to a file to be used as the data source, or an arbitrary unique name. It will be used as the plot title unless another title is set.
* `y` can have multiple entries to plot multiple data series. Each `y` entry can also be a key-value pair of the file path and field name.

Alternatively, this might fit as comments within the dvc.yaml examples, but it might help to explain a bit even if we want to focus on examples.

⚠️ Note that using the `checkpoint` field in `dvc.yaml` is not compatible with
`dvc repro`.

## Plots definitions

> The list of plots contains one or more user-defined

Reviewer 2: @dberenbaum @pared @daavoo what is the usual case that is expected for this global "plots" declaration? Is it primarily about bootstrapping the repo initially that doesn't have any stages?) should we clarify this? make example simpler below?

from the example it's not clear what it the benefit of having it outside the pipeline ..

Author: I would say it's explained in `plots` docs. I don't think it should be a part of `dvc.yaml` docs - it only informs that such thing as `plots` exists.

Reviewer: This is what I meant in https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/3691#discussion_r908927506. I agree with @shcheklein that we should provide some brief explanation for why there are `plots` both here and under `stages` (or the examples should make this clear) since this doc is the holistic explanation of the `dvc.yaml` structure.

> Is it primarily about bootstrapping the repo initially that doesn't have any stages?

This is actually not possible yet ☹️ and is a follow-up action. The `dvc.yaml` must already have `stages` for now.

The benefit of the global `plots` is that if your plot sources multiple outputs, there's no way to configure it in your stage outputs.

[plots](/doc/command-reference/plots#standalone-plots). Here's an example that
tells DVC that `auc.json` is viable for visualization:

```yaml
stages:
  build:
    cmd: python train.py
    deps:
      - features.csv
    outs:
      - model.pt
      - auc.json
    metrics:
      - accuracy.txt:
          cache: false
plots:
  auc.json:
    x: fpr
    y: tpr
```

> Note that in this example we don't have to specify `auc.json` as a plot output.

Reviewer 2: Q - can it be DVC cached?

Author: Yes

⚠️ Note that using the `checkpoint` field in `dvc.yaml` is not compatible with
`dvc repro`.

> ## Standalone plots configurations
> 
> The list of plots contains one or more user-defined
> [plots](/doc/command-reference/plots#standalone-plots). Here's an example that
> tells DVC that `auc.json` is viable for visualization:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Refusable plots

While [plots](/doc/command-reference/plots#standalone-plots) are ultimately
associated to specific [stages](#stages), you can define one or more of them under a top level
`plots` field in `dvc.yaml` in order to customize them once and reuse across multiple
stages.

The following example tells DVC that output `auc.json` is viable for visualization:
```

Reviewer: `Refusable` -> `Reusable`

@jorgeorpinel I'm fine with the descriptions, but I'm struggling to understand how the plots are more "reusable" across multiple stages in the top-level field. They enable covering multiple data sources in one plot or using the same data source in multiple plots (maybe that last part is what you mean?).

Reviewer 3: My understanding here is still not great (didn't have time to read all the motivation in core tickets yet). I thought reusability was the main aspect of this but let's find some other word or go with **Top-level plot definitions**. Or just **Plots** if we're planning to (soft) deprecate stage-level `plots`.

Reviewer: "Top-level plot definitions" works for now. Let's not let the naming hold up getting this merged because there's a lot of useful content in it.

Author: So I should update the PR and replace `standalone` plots with `top-level definitions`?

Reviewer: Yup, that sounds good to me.

Author: Done

Reviewer 3: > They enable covering multiple data sources in one plot or using the same data source in multiple plots

> The main point is that they can use data sourced from different files, maybe we should include that?

Yes, this motivation should be very clear in the docs, probably presented as benefits or features of plots definitions (more than as advantages over stage-level plots, since those may become deprecated soonish -- we shouldn't assume users will know about those as a base case anyway).

I see some motivation is presented in **[Top-level plot definitions](https://dvc-org-7086-flexible-p-d0hfxv.herokuapp.com/doc/user-guide/project-structure/pipelines-files#top-level-plot-definitions)** (currently in the cmd ref). I'll comment there more specifically... ⏳

```yaml
stages:
  build:
    cmd: python train.py
    deps:
      - features.csv
    outs:
      - model.pt
      - auc.json
    metrics:
      - accuracy.txt:
          cache: false
plots:
  auc.json:
    x: fpr
    y: tpr
```

> Note that in this example we don't have to specify `auc.json` as a plot output.
> Standalone plots accept any file from repository. Refer to the plots  
> [documentation](/doc/command-reference/plots#syntax) for more information on
> plots syntax.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that we didn't have to specify `auc.json` as a plot in the stage. In fact,
Top-level plot definitions can use any file in the <abbr>workspace</abbr> or
<abbr>cache</abbr>.

[plots]: /doc/command-reference/plots#standalone-plots
```

Author: I am not sure we should mention cache - "Any file from repository" covers all files - tracked by git,dvc and even those that were just copied into the repo folder and not tracked by anything.

Reviewer 3: Does this work with non-Git projects?

Author: Yes

Reviewer 3: Updated suggestion ☝🏼

Author: Updated
